## Relational Database
If we want to configure a database in a classic way, we have to install the database on the server and configure it. In RDS, the installation and configuration part is done and maintained by AWS.

### Disadvantages
* No other custom services can be run like email sending, analytics and so on
* Only the database can be used for the data storing. Not other tasks.
* Licensing, there is a huge cost for licensing
* Backup will be taken by AWS. Can't custom it in out way.

### Advantages
* Not have to maintain by me
* No hassle of installation and configuration.
* Backup will be maintained by AWS itself.

## Amazon Cloudwatch
Used for monitoring the services in the AWS.

## Amazon S3 storage (SSS - Simple Storage Service)
S3 is file storage service provided by AWS.
* File can be 0 byte to 5 terabyte
* Highly reliable
* Can be given different level permission
* Has folder versioning system

### Data Policy
There are two data policies - 
1. **Consistency model**: File can be downloaded by 1 second after it is uploaded. Its costly.
2. **Eventual Consistency model**: File can be downloaded after some time. Its less costly.

### Storage class
1. **S3 Standard** - default storage class
2. **Intelligent Tiering** - Long lived data but access change
3. **S3 IA** - Infrequent Access
4. **S3 One Zone IA** - One zone infrequent access
5. **Reduced redundancy** - Normally a file is copied over 6 places. In reduced redundancy it will be copied over 3 place. Risk factor will be increased in a less manner.
6. **Glacier** - Big data storage but retrieval time varies from minutes to hours

### Bill depends on
* Storage size
* Total requests made
* Storage management / labeling - report download, backup, folder system and so on
* Data transfer
* Transfer acceleration - accelarate file download and upload speed


## Amazon EFS
It is file storage system that grows with the time. It can be used with Amazon EC2 instances.